.TH DEVA-VISIBILITY 1 "18 May 2018" "DEVA Project"
.SH NAME
deva-compare-boundaries \- compare one set of boundaries to another
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdeva-compare-boundaries\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIstandard.png\fR
\fIcomparison.png\fR \fIcoordinates\fR \fIvisualization.png\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Compares a binary image presumed to represent the location of real
boundary elements (e.g., from geometry) to a comparison binary image
presumed to represent the location of boundary elements to be compared
to the standard (e.g., luminance values).  The output is a visualization
of the distance, in visual angle, from each real boundary element to the
nearest comparison boundary element.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-red\-green\fR
Larger distance (usually associated with estimated visibility hazards)
shown in red and other geometric standard boundary elements that are
closer (usually associated with elements estimated to be less of a
potential visibility hazard) shown in green. Default.
.TP
\fB\-\-red\-gray\fR
Larger distance (usually associated with estimated visibility hazards)
shown in red and other geometric standard boundary elements that are
closer (usually associated with elements estimated to be less of a
potential visibility hazard) shown in dark gray.
.TP
\fB\-\-Gaussian=\fI<sigma>\fR
Visualization based on distance weighted by an unnormalized Gaussian
function with standard deviation \fI<sigma>\fR. Default visualization
weighting is \fB\-\-Gaussian=0.75\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-reciprocal=\fI<scale>\fR
Visualization based on reciprocal of distance, with distance scaled by
\fI<scale>\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-linear=\fI<max>\fR
Visualization linearly scaled to a maximum distance of \fI<max>\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-quantscore\fR
Annotate the output image with the average hazard value over all of the
boundary elements in the standard.  Only available if compiled with the
Cairo library option.
.TP
\fB\-\-mask=\fI<filename.png>\fR
Name of existing PNG file where pixels that are TRUE should be marked
specially in the output visualization file.  This is usually the output
file from deva-visualize-geometry that is generated when the
\fB\-\-mask\fR flag is specified for that program.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fIstandard.png\fR
Binary image file, with \fITRUE\fR indicated by non-zero value.
Represents the standard to compare against (e.g., geometry).
.TP
\fIcomparison.png\fR
Binary image file, with \fITRUE\fR indicated by non-zero value.
Represents the boundary elements to be compare to the standard (e.g.,
luminance boundaries).
.TP
\fIcoordinates\fR
A two line text file.  The first line specifies the units for the
\fIxyz.txt\fR and \fIdist.txt\fR files. The second line is the same as
the VIEW record in \fIinput.hdr\fR.  See \fBmake-coordinates-file\fR for
information on how to create this file.
.TP
\fIvisualization.png\fR
Output visualization file.
.\" SH EXAMPLES
\." SH LIMITATIONS
\." PP
.SH AUTHOR
William B. Thompson
