.TH DEVA-VISIBILITY 1 "20 January 2019" "DEVA Project"
.SH NAME
devas-visibility \- estimate locations of potential low-vision hazards
.SH SYNOPSIS
\." \fBdevas-visibility\fR \fB\-\-mild|\-\-moderate|\-\-significant|\-\-severe\fR
.TP
\fBdevas-visibility\fR \fIpreset-option\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fIinput.hdr\fR | \-}
\fIcoordinates\fR \fIxyz.txt\fR \fIdist.txt\fR
\fInor.txt\fR \fIsimulated-view.hdr\fR \fIhazards.png\fR
.PP
				or
.TP
\fBdevas-visibility\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIacuity contrast\fR {\fIinput.hdr\fR | \-} \fIcoordinates\fR
\fIxyz.txt\fR \fIdist.txt\fR \fInor.txt\fR
\fIsimulated-view.hdr\fR \fIhazards.png\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Extends functionality of \fBdevas-filter\fR to provide estimates of
likely low-vision hazards, defined as geometric structures that may be a
mobility hazard but are not co-located with detectable visual contrast.
Two output images are created.  One is the same Radiance HDR format
image that would be created by \fBdevas-filter\fR, given comparable
arguments.  The other is a color PNG image, with estimated visibility
hazards shown in red and other geometric features estimated to be less
of a potential visibility hazard shown in green or dark gray. the
analysis is based on the image plane distances, quantified in terms of
visual angles, between locations corresponding to geometric
discontinuities and the closest luminance discontinuity.  Regions of
this output image that correspond to regions of the input image that are
too dark to support reliable visual feature detection are marked in
orange of yellow.  The yellow coloring indicates the location of a
geometric boundary in this too-dark-to-see region.  This helps align the
hazard visualization with the actual scene structure and encodes
geometry that might be invisible due to low luminance. 
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
All of the \fBdevas-filter\fR options, plus:
.TP
\fB\-\-luminanceboundaries=\fI<filename>.png\fR
Write a grayscale PNG image file indicating the location of detected
luminance boundaries.  Value of TRUE correspond to boundary elements.
.TP
\fB\-\-geometryboundaries=\fI<filename>.png\fR
Write a grayscale PNG image file indicating the location of detected
geometry boundaries.  Value of TRUE correspond to boundary elements.
.TP
\fB\-\-red\-green\fR
Larger angular distances (usually associated with estimated visibility
hazards) shown in red and other geometric standard boundary elements
that are closer (usually associated with elements estimated to be less
of a potential visibility hazard) shown in green. Default.
.TP
\fB\-\-red\-gray\fR
Larger angular distance (usually associated with estimated visibility
hazards) shown in red and other geometric standard boundary elements
that are closer (usually associated with elements estimated to be less
of a potential visibility hazard) shown in dark gray.
.TP
\fB\-\-Gaussian=\fI<sigma>\fR
Visualization based on angular distance weighted by an unnormalized
Gaussian function with standard deviation \fI<sigma>\fR. Default
visualization weighting is \fB\-\-Gaussian=0.75\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-reciprocal=\fI<scale>\fR
Visualization based on reciprocal of angular distance, with distance
scaled by \fI<scale>\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-linear=\fI<max>\fR
Visualization linearly scaled to a maximum angular distance of
\fI<max>\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-ROI=<filename>.png\fR
Read in a region-of-interest file of the same dimensions as input.hdr.
Only analyze visibility of pixel locations that have a non-zero value in
the ROI file.
.TP
\fB\-\-quantscore\fR
Annotate the output image with the average Hazard Visibility Score over
all of the geometric boundary elements not in low luminance areas.
Analysis is limited to pixels in the region of interest, if specified.
Only available if compiled with the Cairo library option.  If the Cairo
library is not available, you can still get access to the Hazard
Visibility Score by using the \fB\-\-printfaverage\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-\-printfaverage\fR
Print to standard output the average Hazard Visibility Score over
all of the geometric boundary elements not in low luminance areas.  
Analysis is limited to pixels in the region of interest, if specified.
Does not require the Cairo library.
.TP
\fB\-\-printfaveragena\fR
Same as \fB\-\-printfaverage\fR, but includes no annotations or a
trailing carriage return.  This is intended to facilitate capturing data
by executing devas-visibility from a shell script that intersperses other
annotation and formatting information and concatenates the results to a
log file.
.TP
\fB\-\-lowluminance=\fI<filename>.png\fR
Write a grayscale PNG image file indicating the location of low
luminance area in the input image.  Such pixels are indicated by a value
of *TRUE* in the output file.
\fB\-\-falsepositives=\fI<filename>.png\fR
Write an additional output color PNG image indicating likely potential
false positive area in the input image where visual contours do not
correspond to actual scene geometry.  Uses a gray-cyan colormap.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fIinput.hdr\fR
Original Radiance image of area in design model to be evaluated for
low-vision visibility hazards, as for \fBdevas-filter\fR.
.TP
\fIcoordinates\fR
A two line text file.  The first line specifies the units for the
\fIxyz.txt\fR and \fIdist.txt\fR files. The second line is the same as
the VIEW record in \fIinput.hdr\fR.  See \fBmake-coordinates-file\fR for
information on how to create this file.
.TP
\fIxyz.txt\fR
A Radiance ASCII format file specifying the xyz model coordinates for
each surface point in the model corresponding to the line of sight
associated with each pixel in \fIinput.hdr\fR.
.TP
\fIdist.txt\fR
A Radiance ASCII format file specifying the distance from the viewpoint
to each surface point in the model corresponding to the line of sight
associated with each pixel in \fIinput.hdr\fR.
.TP
\fInor.txt\fR
A Radiance ASCII format file specifying the surface normal in model
coordinates for each surface point in the model corresponding to the
line of sight associated with each pixel in \fIinput.hdr\fR.  Note that
the numeric values are unitless since they specify a unit normal.
.TP
\fIsimulated-view.hdr\fR
A Radiance image simulating the reduced visibility associated with loss
of visual acuity and contrast sensitivity.
.TP
\fIhazards.png\fR
An output PNG image indicating likely potential visibility hazards.
.\" SH EXAMPLES
\." SH LIMITATIONS
\." PP
.SH AUTHOR
William B. Thompson
