.TH DeVAS-VISUALIZE-GEOMETRY 1 "22 January 2018" "DeVAS Project"
.SH NAME
devas-visualize-geometry \- generate displayable DeVAS geometry file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBdevas-visualize-geometry\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIprint-row-start print-col-start
print-row-end print-col-end\fR] \fIinput.txt\fR \fIoutput.pdf\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generate displayable version of DEVA geometry file as a PNG file.  3D
values are displayed in RGB, with R=|x|, G=|y|, and B=|z|.  1D values
are displayed with positive values in green and negative values in red.
Black indicates a zero value.  Display values are scaled by the extremal
value of the input.  For 1d data, effectively infinite values (holes in
distance data) are displayed in orange.  This is not needed for xyz or
nor data, since in those data files hole result in zero values.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-3dx1=\fIa\fR
Display a single dimension of at 3D file using the same coloring scheme
as for 1D data.  \fIa\fR is a single characters specifying the dimension
('x', 'y', or 'z').
.TP
\fB\-\-print\fR
Print selected values in the input to standard output.  Requires four
additional parameters:
\fIprint-row-start\fR,
\fIprint-col-start\fR,
\fIprint-row-end\fR, and
\fIprint-col-end\fR, specifying the upper-left and lower-right corners
of the values to be printed.
.TP
\fB\-\-outline\fR
Outline the location of the printed values in the output PNG file.
.SH EXAMPLES
To visualize dst (distance from viewpoint) data:
.IP "" .5i
devas-visualize-geometry input_dst.txt output_dst.png
.PP
To visualize the Y dimension of an xyz.txt (surface point location) file:
.IP "" .5i
devas-visualize-geometry --3dx1=y input_xyz.txt output_xyz.png
\." SH LIMITATIONS
\." PP
.SH AUTHOR
William B. Thompson
