.TH DeVAS-FILTER 1 "14 February 2016" "DeVAS Project"
.SH NAME
devas-filter \- simulate loss of acuity and contrast sensitivity
.SH SYNOPSIS
\." \fBdevas-filter\fR \fB\-\-mild|\-\-moderate|\-\-significant|\-\-severe\fR
\fBdevas-filter\fR \fIpreset-option\fR \
{\fIinput.hdr\fR | \-} {\fIoutput.hdr\fR | \-}
.br
				or
.br
\fBdevas-filter\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIacuity contrast\fR
{\fIinput.hdr\fR | \-} {\fIoutput.hdr\fR | \-}
.SH DESCRIPTION
Filter a RADIANCE picture to simulate the reduced visibility associated
with loss of visual acuity and contrast sensitivity, writing the result
to a new RADIANCE picture.  The input picture must have a VIEW record
indicating field of view.  It can be in rgbe or xyze pixel format.  The
input can optionally be "\-", indicating that the original picture
should be read from standard input.  The output picture will be in rgbe
pixel format, regardless of the pixel format of input.  The output can
optionally be "\-", indicating that the filtered picture should be
written to standard output.
.PP
\fIacuity\fR is specified in terms of a Snellen ratio or a logMAR value.
The modeling underlying \fBdevas-filter\fR does not address small
differences in visibility over the range of normal vision, i.e., from
-0.3 to 0.3 logMAR.  As a result, specifying and acuity value less than
0.3 logMAR (20/40 Snellen) is not allowed.
\fIcontrast\fR is specified in terms of either the ratio of the desired
Michaelson contrast sensitivity to normal vision contrast sensitivity or
as a Pelli-Robson Chart score.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fIpreset-options:\fR \
\fB\-\-mild | \-\-moderate | \-\-significant | \-\-severe\fR
Specifies use of one of four predefined levels of acuity and contrast
deficits, along with a corresponding loss in color sensitivity.  A fifth
preset is also available, \fB\-\-legalblind\fR. This specifies the U.S.
"legal blindness" acuity level along with appropriate contrast
sensitivity and color sensitivity values.  Note that this specifies a
level of visual impairment right at the legal blindness cutoff point.
It is not some sort of test of legal blindness.  When any of the presets
are specified, the \fIacuity\fR and \fIcontrast\fR arguments are left
off the command line.  Only one of the preset flags can be specified.
When presets are used, other options relating to acuity and contrast are
dissabled.
.TP
\fB\-\-Snellen | \-\-logMAR\fR
Specifies the format of the \fIacuity\fR argument.  \fB\-\-Snellen\fR is
the default.  Snellen ratios can be given as a single decimal value or
in the common "n/m" (in the U.S., usually "20/m") fractional form.
logMAR values are given in the conventional manner or as a single number.
.TP
\fB\-\-cutoff | \-\-peak\fR
Indicates that \fIacuity\fR is specified with respect to cutoff or peak
contrast sensitivity.  \fB\-\-cutoff\fR is the default, and corresponds
to the values usually reported in clinical eye examinations.
.TP
\fB\-\-sensitivity-ratio | \-\-pelli-robson\fR
Indicates that \fIcontrast\fR is specified as a ratio of desired
contrast sensitivity to normal vision contrast sensitivity
(\fB\-\-sensitivity-ratio\fR) or as a Pelli-Robson Chart score
(\fB\-\-pelli-robson).  \fB\-\-sensitivity-ratio\fR is the default.
.TP
\fB\-\-autoclip | \-\-clip=\fIlevel\fR
Large magnitude input luminance values are reduced to a lower level.
This is most useful in reducing filtering artifacts due to small, bright
light sources.  For \fB\-\-autoclip\fR, the level at which values are
clipped is chosen automatically.  For \fB\-\-clip\fR, values larger than
\fIlevel\fR are reduced to \fIlevel\fR, with \fIlevel\fR specified in
cd/m^2.  Default is no clipping.
.TP
\fB\-\-approxCS\fR | \fB\-\-approxCSquiet\fR
Often, the only available property for specifying a particular level of
low vision is acuity.  Low vision very often also involves a loss of
contrast sensitivity.  Including one of these options causes the program
to estimate a level of contrast sensitivity loss appropriate to the
specified loss of acuity.  It is important to note that this is just a
rough estimate, and may be far from the actual contrast sensitivity of
an individual with the specified acuity.  The --approxCS flag causes a
message to be written to stderr giving the value of contrast sensitivity
that was chosen.  --approxCSquiet skips this informative message.  In
either case, do not explicitly specify a contrast value.
.TP
\fB\-\-approxSaturation\fR | \fB\-\-approxSaturationquiet\fR Signifcant
loss of acuity and contrast sensitivity is often associated with color
vision deficiencies, though there is little data on the correlation
between the severity of acuity and contrast loss and the type and
severity of color vision loss.  Visibility judgments made by
devas-visibility depend only on luminance and so are unaffected by color
deficits. For simulation of low vision views produced by
\fBdevas-filter\fR and \fBdevas-visibility\fR, we have chosen to reduce
the color saturation as a function of acuity using an ad hoc formula
that is not based on any impirical evidence and is only an aesthetic
judgment made by the devas-filter software designer.
.TP
\fB\-\-color | \-\-grayscale | \-\-saturation=\fIvalue\fR
Indicates amount of desaturation.  \fB\-\-color\fR: no desaturation.
\fB\-\-grayscale\fR: full desaturation. \fB\-\-saturation=\fIvalue\fR:
partial desaturation, scaled by value in range (0.0 - 1.0), with low
values indicating more desaturation.  \fB\-\-color\fR is the default.
.TP
\fB\-\-margin=\fIvalue\fR
Add a margin around the input file to reduce FFT artifacts due to
top-bottom and left-right wraparound. \fIvalue\fR is a number in the
range (0.0 -- 1.0].  It specifies the size of the horizontal and
vertical padding as a fraction of the original horizontal and vertical
size.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number and then exit. No other flags or arguments are
required. (\fB\-v\fR also works.)
.TP
\fB\-\-presets\fR
Print out acuity, contrast sensitivity, and color saturation parameters
associated with the presets \fB\-\-mild\fR, \fB\-\-moderate\fR,
\fB\-\-severe\fR, and \fB\-\-profound\fR. No other flags or arguments are
required.
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fB
Print possibly informative information about a particular run.
.SH EXAMPLES
To simulate moderate loss of acuity, contrast sensitivity, and color
sensitivity:
.IP "" .5i
devas-filter \-\-moderate in.hdr out.hdr
.PP
To simulate 20/200 acuity without loss of peak contrast sensitivity:
.IP "" .5i
devas-filter 20/200 1 in.hdr out.hdr
.PP
Equivalently, using logMAR notation for acuity:
.IP "" .5i
devas-filter \-\-logMAR 1.0 1 in.hdr out.hdr
.PP
To do the same filtering but output a grayscale image:
.IP "" .5i
devas-filter \-\-grayscale \-\-logMAR 1.0 1 in.hdr out.hdr
.PP
To simulate a peak frequency sensitivity of 10% of normal vision and a
peak contrast sensitivity at that frequency corresponding to 20% of
normal vision:
.IP "" .5i
devas-filter \-\-Snellen \-\-peak 0.1 0.2 in.hdr out.hdr
.PP
To simulate 20/400 acuity and a contrast sensitivity indicated by a
Pelli-Robson Chart score of 1.0:
.IP "" .5i
devas-filter \-\-pelli-robson 20/400 1.0 in.hdr out.hdr
\." SH LIMITATIONS
\." PP
.SH AUTHOR
William B. Thompson
